&b2026 Monumenta Roadmap&r
Hello everyone! It's been a year since our last roadmap update,
so we thought it would be a good time to address some of our
priorities and upcoming projects as we look towards Monumenta
development in 2026. This is mainly focused on our larger
efforts, so if you don't see something here, it doesn't
necessarily mean it isn't on our radar.
• Over the last year, we've been rebuilding the early game from
the ground up to better showcase Monumenta to our new players.
Along with a full labs & tutorial rework, the swamp overworld
has been entirely rebuilt with both new and returning pois,
discoveries, secrets and remastered quests.
• We're also revitalizing the early game by tweaking dungeon
rewards & skill point progression, paired with full reworks of
class ability descriptions for readability and comprehension,
the return of natural spawns, and more friendly overworld death
systems.
• The near future will bring a finale expansion for Star Point,
wrapping up the main Chapter 3 questline and bringing you face
to face with the consequences of Aurora's actions within
Phyrrys!
• Our next overworld expansion has begun development! It is the
team's top priority to release with several new POIs and quests
alongside a traditional dungeon in late 2026. Taking what we've
learned from the R1 Revamp, we hope to create a richer overworld
with secrets, challenges and the return of natural spawns. We're
also designing with expandability in mind, so that new story
quests and major content can be released post launch without a
significant build-overhead.
• We know it's been a little while since there's been any news
about Exalted dungeons. As 2025 draws to a close, we'll be
prioritizing the R2 Exalted suite for releases all throughout
2026, beginning with Lime and Pink early next year.
• We also haven't forgotten about our next R3 strike release, as
we're completing the final stages of boss development before
entering testing. The full release is expected in 2026.
• One of the most ambitious quests we've ever attempted to
produce • a large scale "open zone" quest, on the scope of A
Study in Crimson or beyond. A culmination of nearly two years in
development aimed to bring several aspects of the story front
and center, and push them forward into the future.
• Beyond all the new content with new quests, we're also looking
back at older quest lines that remain unfinished as of now.
We're looking to finish at least one storyline, if not more, in
2026, with the Duchess series being a primary focus to bring to
a close next year.
As always, thanks for your patience and support!
&bZenith Anniversary Event&r
It's been two years since the Celestial Zenith launched on
December 16, 2023, and it's once again time to celebrate! Gather
your A-team and enter the dungeon with your friends between
December 10th and December 24th to participate in 6-player
Zenith!
Good luck and have fun!Rounding out October and taking us into
November, we saw the release of the major Rush of Dissonance
overhaul! Originally released back in 2020, RoD's backend
technicals and frontend gameplay mechanics had become bulky,
bloated, and a product of their time. With this fresh coat of
paint, the systems have become far more stabilized and the
gameplay refined to reduce focus on spending more and more time
fighting the same exact encounters over and over, as well as
diversify and enhance the actual space in which you play the
encounters! With it, we hope Rush now stands far more prominent
and keeps you on your toes!
Finally, we have reached December, where we have had quite the
jampacked month. Starting it off came the release of the long
awaited Alchemist, Shaman, and Berserk overhauls! Having taken
much of our class team's focus for some time, these reworks
aimed to more heavily refine and refocus the gameplay aspects
that are most enjoyed about these classes, while cutting fluff
and areas that didn't quite mesh. Following it off and wrapping
the year out, we saw the release of A Union Cross, our largest
and most ambitious quest to-date! The time has come to delve
into the latest threat arising in the dreamscape, and unlock
secrets of the past that have eluded you until now!
And with that, 2025 has come to a wrap! This has been a
phenomenal year for the game, and we didn't even have time to
discuss so many other notable releases this year like Quest
Resetting, the Friend System, Author Races, the Quest Compass
Overhaul, Skill Description Rewrites, and more Region 1
Overworld and POI overhauls than you can shake a stick at! We
have come so far this year, and we can't wait for you all to see
what we have in store for 2026!
Thank you all for taking this journey with us! We wish you all
very Merry Christmas, and a Happy New Year!In April, we took to
focusing on some backend technical aspects of the game,
specifically in regards to guilds! Not only were several QoL
features added, but after many long years, guild plots were
finally moved to their own shard/world instancing system! This
crucial shift helped us expand well beyond the spacial
limitations of the previous system, allowing us to eye an
increase in player count without any worry!
May saw the year's final dedicated boss release, the Twisted
Intruder! In one of the darkest and most twisted encounters in
the game, you are forced to face untold nightmares that lie in
worlds beyond... It can see you, but can you perceive it long
enough to stand against it?
While Monumenta's main focus in realm of new content is largely
in the Architect's Ring, it is very much our belief that all
aspects of the game should remain fun and enjoyable at all
levels. That's why with June, our balancing crew began a heavy
effort to drastically diversify the item space across both the
King's Valley and Celsian Isles. With the inclusion of
backporting several R3 enchantments and stats into the regions,
the design space for the regions has never been greater, and we
look forward to what that offers us in the coming year with the
Valley overhaul!
July needs no real introduction, as it held the launch of our
first wool dungeon in nearly years • Phyrrys, the City of Fallen
Stars! In this breathtaking dungeon, you seek out the elusive
Indigo Wool, all while in a race against time as your former
allies dart for the wool as well, and a pestering darkness
brewed on the horizon... We hope you all thorough enjoyed the
vastness of this dungeon, and look forward to this story's epic
conclusion in 2026!Something we haven't het focused on is 2025's
quiet background focus on delve modifiers, including more
experimental mods to further diversify your experience with
dungeons and POIs! With August, they really took the forefront,
with an additional five experimental mods and several overhauls,
setting the stage for more additions, adjustments, and even
replacements to come as we rounded out the year. This truly was
a year of delves focus, as we hope it all felt worth that year
spanning endeavor!
With September, the Architect's Ring experienced something that
had not occured since the release of Star Point, the launch of a
brand new POI • Fathom's Reach! Featuring a an absolutely wild
build style unlike anything Monumenta has seen prior, this
release also set the precedent for us to ship POIs to the
entrance uninhibited by the time restrictions that a full
expansion would require, allowing us to provide more gameplay
opprotunities much sooner! Something quite like it may be on the
horizon soon...
October saw the release of a long-awaited rework and replacement
to one of Monumenta more underutilized specializations, Seraph!
Functioning as a full on replacement to the previous Hierophant
skill set, Seraph sports a combo of healing and utility
playstyle unseen in other class move sets! The class development
team had been cooking this rework for some time, and we hope you
all found it worth it, though it wouldn't be the last of its
kind this year...
&bMerry Christmas from Team Monumenta!&r
Merry Christmas everyone! I hope you all have had a wonderful
year once again. While we are all settling in for the holidays
and prepping ourselves for the new year to come, I always feel
it is important for us to look back on the time that has passed
us and how far we have come in that span. So join me once again
as we look back on Monumenta in 2025!
In January, we finally returned to weekly updates after nearly a
2 months break away to update the server to Minecraft version
1.20.4! It is Team Monumenta's continued belief that keeping the
server updated is a prevelant factor in remaining relevant in
the modern day, and we continue to keep an eye on opprotunities
to upgrade further in 2026!
With February came the first major new content launch of 2025,
the Silver Knight Remnants! In this diversion-style raid, you
were tasked reach distant and hostile lands, encounter unique
challenges, and unlock secrets long forgotten to time... As a
reward for completing other pieces of content around the server,
we hope you continue to keep SKR in your sights any time a
scroll finds its way to you!
March continued the pacing, releasing the Diamenean Hunts! After
a not-so-brief and rather quirky encounter with the Hunter's
Lodge members, you were able to set off and find several unique
overworld bosses to fight alongside other interested hunters!
Sporting abilities and a spoil mechanic unseen in other bosses
in Monumenta, the Diamenean Hunts are a fight you wouldn't want
to miss out on!We are pleased to announce that @lynx1240 has
been promoted to Moderator Lead! Make sure to give him lots of
🏓Hey everyone! After more than five years serving as a project
lead for Monumenta, I've decided it's time to step down and
focus on other interests and areas of life. It's been a truly
incredible journey and one that has been immensely meaningful
for me. The server has grown leaps and bounds since I joined-• I
remember having neighbors on betaplots or even a tiny apartment
in Sierhaven to hold my limited belongings; times when the
online player count could be shown on one hand. When R2 released
in 2019, I had just graduated college and was eager to
contribute and give back to the game. After learning the ropes
and leading my first full project, Echoes of Oblivion, I was
asked to be a lead in 2020.
Years later, I'm proud to say almost everyone here has played
something I had a hand in, whether that be Teal, Depths/Zenith,
the PORTAL series or just enjoying some Seasonal Pass missions.
While I didn't do everything perfectly (and still don't), it
warmed my heart seeing the reception to these projects and
watching players get to experience them. There's nothing like
the anticipation and excitement of spectating day one of your
content launch, and it's great getting to see our newer
developers sharing this experience these days. I still love
Monumenta and always will, so I'll be back to play the new
updates and content as long as the team is around and kicking.
Rest assured, it's in good hands.
Over the years I have had the privilege of leading a fantastic
team of volunteer developers, defying expectations of what is
possible every year. I've had hundreds of genuine and
constructive interactions with passionate players, and learned a
huge amount about game design and development while pushing the
boundaries of what gameplay looks like in Monumenta. Like many
of you all, I'm fortunate to have met some awesome friends from
this wonderful community, ones that I expect to have for years
to come. There's so much more than could fit in a simple goodbye
message, but all of it meant the world to me.
A heartfelt thank you to all of our players for supporting the
game and myself over the years, and have an amazing 2026!I'm
proud to introduce @9o62 and @[MAID] LucyChroma as our newest
full developers! 9o has been working hard as a member of our
build team, releasing Anthill & Creeper Tower, as well as an
important R1 POI rework coming very soon! Lucy has implemented 1
trillion suggestions and bug fixes, and is working on Gallery
stability and future upgrade infrastructure.
As always, 🏓
&bImportant:&r
Monumenta is currently down for maintenance. Please check
<#579190910567317514> for the latest information.
