&r
  WorkInProgress|Content&r
 The Staff? Start: Go to the   Link   Mysterious Cenote Mysterious_Cenote wikilink and pick up a staff from the chest after
doing   Link   The Staff The_Staff wikilink Quest.
 &7&o  Warning: If you haven't completed the Black Willows (delve completion also counts as a completion) at least once, this
quest will silently fail to start.
 First, go to   Link   Southern Village Southern_Village wikilink south of Sierhaven and pick up the Whirlpool coin from the
fountain. Then, go behind the   Link   Lighthouse Lighthouse wikilink and there is an underwater grate in the water with stone
blocks and iron trapdoors at -847, 78, 458. Throw the Whirlpool coin into the grate and head to   Link   Water Shrine
Water_Shrine wikilink  . The Water Shrine will now be amplified and a pressure plate is on the inside to step on.
 For the Earth Shrine, you have to go to   Link   Molten Chasm Molten_Chasm wikilink and break the 3 black concrete powder
blocks sandwiched between two magma blocks scattered around the POI. Once that is finished, you will get confirmation text that
this worked and head to   Link   Earth Shrine Earth_Shrine wikilink which is now amplified. Find the pressure plate and you will
have completed the Earth Shrine.
 For Fire Shrine, go to   Link   Water Cavern Water_Cavern wikilink and go to the very bottom of it. There you should see ice on
the surface of the water and a dark prismarine block with a button, press the button to get the Ice Crystal and go to   Link
Fire Shrine Fire_Shrine wikilink  . At the back of the shrine, there is a dispenser surrounded by magma blocks. Put the ice in
the dispenser and press the button. (NOTE: make sure to back away from the shrine as fast you can after pressing the button so
there is little chance the amping is halted by your character being "in" the shrine. You'll know if it's amplified or not when
the magma turns into ice.) Go in the shrine and stand on the pressure plate.
  Tip: For Amped Air Shrine, there are invisible creepers with potions with Instant Harming 10, do NOT get hit by them.
 For the Air Shrine, you must have a   Link   Narsen's Will Narsen's_Will wikilink  . To start the amplification, go to
Sierhaven and head East. Follow the path until you get to the 2nd house on your right; it has a glass plus sign above the door.
Go inside and talk to the NPC Amelia the Pilot.
 [Amelia the Pilot] Yo. I recently moved here from on top of a big tree. I had to leave my hot air balloon behind, but things
were getting a bit too close for comfort, and I've never been a big fan of heights. Wait, hey, is that a Narsen's Will?
 [Yes, I've got a Narsen's Will right here]
 [Amelia the Pilot] That's awesome! If you ever see a balloon called the Harbinger of the Tempest, you should give them this.
They'd really dig it if you know what I mean.
 You will get an Eye of the Storm. Go to   Link   Hawk Fortress Hawk_Fortress wikilink and find the Yellow and Light Blue hot
air balloon named "Harbinger of the Tempest." Put the item in the dispenser, you will get a confirmation text and the   Link
Air Shrine Air_Shrine wikilink will be immediately amplified next to you. Find the pressure plate inside.
 You should now have a completed staff, now go to the   Link   Cave of Secrets Cave_of_Secrets wikilink and step through the
portal.
